
=== PAGE 1 ===
Agentic Skill Discovery
Xufeng Zhao*, Cornelius Weber, Stefan Wermter
University of Hamburg
{xufeng.zhao, cornelius.weber, stefan.wermter}@uni-hamburg.de
Abstract
Language-conditioned robotic skills make it possible to apply
the high-level reasoning of Large Language Models (LLMs)
to low-level robotic control. A remaining challenge is to
acquire a diverse set of fundamental skills. Existing ap-
proaches either manually decompose a complex task into
atomic robotic actions in a top-down fashion, or bootstrap
as many combinations as possible in a bottom-up fashion to
cover a wider range of task possibilities. These decomposi-
tions or combinations, however, require an initial skill library.
For example, a “grasping” capability can never emerge from
a skill library containing only diverse “pushing” skills. Ex-
isting skill discovery techniques with reinforcement learning
acquire skills by an exhaustive exploration but often yield
non-meaningful behaviors. In this study, we introduce a novel
framework for skill discovery that is entirely driven by LLMs.
The framework begins with an LLM generating task propos-
als based on the provided scene description and the robot’s
configurations, aiming to incrementally acquire new skills
upon task completion. For each proposed task, a series of re-
inforcement learning processes are initiated, utilizing reward
and success determination functions sampled by the LLM to
develop the corresponding policy. The reliability and trust-
worthiness of learned behaviors are further ensured by an in-
dependent vision-language model. We show that starting with
zero skill, the skill library emerges and expands to more and
more meaningful and reliable skills, enabling the robot to effi-
ciently further propose and complete advanced tasks. Project
page: https://agentic-skill-discovery.github.io.
...
Push cube A and
cube B close to
each other
Place the plate
onto the target
position
Move the end-
effector to the
target position
Pick up the plate
Open the drawer
Reach the plate
Pick up cube A
...
What can I
learn to do?
Pick up cube B
LLMs
RL
+
Figure 1: Agentic Skill Discovery gradually acquires con-
textual skills for table manipulation.
*Corresponding author.
[Preprint]
1
Introduction
Large Language Models (LLMs) show great capabilities
in many fields that require common sense and reasoning.
Large-scale models excel because of their training on human
datasets, and textual or even multimodal reasoning. LLM-
based agents, especially robots, extend the potential to em-
bodiments, but they still show limitations when applied to
direct robotic control. The reasons are insufficient real-world
robot data for training, as well as the diversity of topologies
and physical properties. As a workaround, abstracting robot
control to a certain level and referring to each abstraction
as a specific “skill” helps LLMs to control robots generi-
cally (Ahn et al. 2022; Zhao et al. 2023; Zhang et al. 2023;
Mandi, Jain, and Song 2023; Wu et al. 2023). For example,
SayCan (Ahn et al. 2022) builds a robot that can follow a
set of basic language instructions. When commanded with a
complex task, an LLM decomposes the task into actionable
low-level actions.
Acquiring diverse robotic skills with minimal human su-
pervision has garnered considerable attention. However, pre-
vious methods have either attempted to chain existing skills,
relying heavily on a collection of basic skills (Du et al.
2023; Celik et al. 2023; Zhang et al. 2023), or explored from
scratch but often yielded non-interpretable robot behaviors,
especially those using unsupervised reinforcement learning
(Li et al. 2023; Park et al. 2023; Eysenbach et al. 2019;
Sharma et al. 2020). We ask whether an LLM can encour-
age a robot to learn novel tasks that consist of entirely novel
yet relevant skills. Imagine a robot being placed in a new
environment. The robot must be motivated to explore the
environment in a way to learn applicable skills before be-
coming ready to perform tasks. Given the knowledge about
human actions, which resides in LLMs, we expect that an
LLM can, by itself, suggest a variety of meaningful skills
for the robot to learn. We refer to this exploration as Agentic
Skill Discovery (ASD) when the robot interacts with the en-
vironment driven by semantic motivation by the LLM that
launches required learning procedures automatically.
In this work, we tackle the challenge of LLMs propos-
ing entirely new tasks to a robot. The LLM needs to guide
learning and evaluate success in the absence of human in-
put or any prespecified evaluation measures. To tackle this
novel challenge, our methodology is as follows: (i) An LLM
iteratively proposes novel tasks that are suitable for the given
arXiv:2405.15019v2  [cs.RO]  16 Aug 2024

=== PAGE 2 ===
environment (see Fig. 1), and collects the resulting skills. (ii)
Skills are learned by reinforcement learning, where the LLM
specifies both the success determination and reward func-
tion. We also show that RL (Reinforcement Learning) and
RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation) techniques are ben-
eficial for efficient skill learning. (iii) Reward functions are
optimized by an evolutionary strategy, where a second vi-
sion language model independently assesses fitness by clas-
sifying the success of the learned behaviors. We show that
minimizing false positives and false negatives is critical, so
the skill library does not get contaminated with overtrusted
skills or depleted from useful skills. (iv) If a complex task
cannot be assembled by learned skills, the LLM will pro-
pose to learn a missing required skill.
2
Related Work
Skill Discovery. Acquiring diverse robotic skills with less
to no human supervision has been a hot topic. A popular
way to achieve this goal is to discover skills with unsuper-
vised reinforcement learning (Li et al. 2023; Park et al. 2023;
Peng et al. 2022; Eysenbach et al. 2019; Sharma et al. 2020).
However, the resultant skills are usually non-interpretable,
sometimes meaningless, to humans. Although some efforts
introduce further constraints to acquire natural behaviors
(Peng et al. 2022), scalability is still limited by a need for
human demonstrations. The trade-off between low costs and
meaningful resulting behavior depends on the amount of hu-
man knowledge introduced – more supervision (high cost)
generally indicates more natural robotic behaviors, and vice
versa.
Chaining known skills into new ones greatly extends
robots’ capabilities. In order to efficiently combine basic
skills in a meaningful way, avoiding combinatorial explo-
sion, LLMs can be utilized to reason the logical ways of
stacking skills to complete new, long-horizon tasks (Zhang
et al. 2023; Celik et al. 2023). When LLMs are prompted
with environment contexts, such as available robot joints and
object types, they can propose meaningful motivations for
the next movement (Du et al. 2023; Zhang et al. 2023). The
approach by (Celik et al. 2023) explores generally meaning-
ful skill combinations by prompting an LLM to get an inter-
esting outcome. However, the incorporation of “new skills”
is constrained by a basic skill library, where existing skills
are simply combined instead of being acquired or developed
from scratch. Thereby, an LLM only motivates the use of al-
ready known skills and plans with a given skill set in these
cases. Using this method, for instance, if a robot is only
versed in the skill of “pushing”, it remains incapable of ac-
quiring the skill of “grasping”.
Code LLM Control. Most LLM-based robots rely on pre-
defined primitives (skills). This design is less flexible, mak-
ing it difficult to generalize to unseen objects and instruc-
tions (Ahn et al. 2022; Zhao et al. 2023). Recent approaches
make an effort to use code LLMs to write programming code
to complete open instructions (Liang et al. 2022; Huang
et al. 2023). In particular, VoxPoser (Huang et al. 2023)
uses VLM and LLM to construct a 3D cost map to guide
a robot engaging with its surroundings. However, VoxPoser
relies on the success of the once-composed cost map, lack-
ing chanceful exploration ability, and moreover relies on the
LLM and a trajectory solver during inference. In contrast,
ASD launches reinforcement learning, letting the agent ex-
plore the environment and exploit the distilled general pol-
icy. As for the automatic learning of low-level robot con-
trol, previous approaches show that LLMs are capable of
programming reward functions to optimize with, achieving
remarkable performance even for complex tasks (Ma et al.
2023; Yu et al. 2023). However, these methods have not yet
been directly applied to skill learning where tasks are newly
proposed.
Using vision language models to analyze robot behaviors
has been demonstrated to be useful. For example, REFLECT
(Liu, Bahety, and Song 2023) uses a multimodal structure
to explain execution failures. We use the advanced GPT-4V
vision language model to classify task success flexibly and
reliably.
3
Agentic Skill Discovery
ASD aims at acquiring new robotic skills and fulfilling given
complicated instructions using language models rather than
relying on exhaustive human endeavors (demonstrations, re-
ward designs, human preference, handcrafted supervision
signals, etc.). At a high level, ASD actively explores the
environment motivated by self-generated task instructions
(Sec. 3.1); at a lower level, it learns to master these explo-
rative tasks (as skills) via reinforcement learning with self-
determined success and rewarding strategy (Sec. 3.2). More-
over, with collected skills, ASD has the promise to complete
long-horizon tasks or further extend the skill library by com-
pleting previously challenging tasks via task decomposition
(Sec. 3.3) and on-demand skill learning1, which learns yet
missing skills when required.
3.1
Iterative Task Proposal and Skill Collection
Instead of relying on exhaustive human efforts, ASD uti-
lizes LLMs to propose meaningful tasks given the de-
scription of a certain scene. Those tasks will be assigned
to reinforcement learning agents to learn corresponding
language-conditioned policies (see Sec. 3.2). See Fig. 2 for
an overview of the skill propose-learn-collect loop.
To provide the LLM with sufficient information about the
environment, we provide it the source code of the obser-
vation space, following (Ma et al. 2023). Also, the robot
configuration, such as robotic arm type and DoFs, is also
prompted as the initial background description. In addition
to the static environment setup, we also provide dynamic
aspects for a robust continual evolution. Considering the un-
predictable difficulties of task learning caused by environ-
ment complexity and intrinsic instability of the learning al-
gorithm, rather than letting an LLM propose several appro-
priate tasks at once, we guide the proposing and learning in
an iterative mode. As a result, temporary uncompleted tasks
will be fed back such that the LLM will have a sense of
1For example, a new “placing” skill should be learned on de-
mand when instructed to stack two cubes together, if the skill li-
brary contains only primary skills like “pushing” and “picking”.

=== PAGE 3 ===
Collect
Robot
Skill Library
Configuration
Environment
Observations
Propose
Learn
Task
Skill Options
Figure 2: Contextual skill acquisition loop of ASD. Given
the environment setup and the robot’s current abilities, an
LLM continually proposes tasks for the robot to complete,
and the successful completion will be collected as acquired
skills, each with several neural network variants (options).
the limits of the learning agent, influencing the following
task proposals. For the sake of efficiency and reusability, we
encourage the LLM to propose tasks that are meaningful,
atomic, independent, and incremental. (See Fig. 11 in Ap-
pendix B for detailed prompts.)
Skill Options. Generally, control with various options for a
given task has the promise of being more robust and gen-
eralizable (Gregor, Rezende, and Wierstra 2017; Eysenbach
et al. 2019). As will be introduced in Sec. 3.2, in the pro-
cess of the evolutionary search of diverse reward functions,
several options lead to a learning success of one given task,
forming a set of various control policies. A task will be con-
sidered complete if the resultant agent behavior aligns with
expectations; otherwise, it is deemed unsuccessful after an
extended period of learning.
Completed tasks will be considered as “skills”, along
with their “options”, to be stored in the skill library, and
attempted but uncompleted ones will be put into a failure
pool. Both will be notified to LLMs to inform the next
turn of task proposals. Failed tasks are usually too sophisti-
cated for LLMs to write reward functions to master at once.
Rather, we will show how we can decompose and complete
them by combining acquired and on-demand-learned skills
(Sec. 3.3). We collect all options for the same skill, i.e. var-
ious policies paired with successful reward functions, as fu-
ture execution candidates and we leave the study of mixing
various skill options for one robust skill control for future
research.
3.2
Evolutionary Skill Learning with Fast and
Slow Success Determination
LLMs are capable of composing reward functions for RL
agents to accomplish specified tasks (Yu et al. 2023; Ma
et al. 2023). We follow a similar strategy of Eureka (Ma
et al. 2023) to prompt LLMs to program reward functions
and evolve them with deterministic selection where only the
best reward function, as assessed by the success rate as a
fitness function, will survive and mutate. See Fig. 3 for an
illustration.
However, when it comes to skill learning, i.e., optimiz-
ing on newly proposed tasks instead of pre-defined ones, ex-
isting methods cannot be directly applied since the fitness
function, the ground truth of success determination, for each
task proposal is not known beforehand, making it impossi-
ble for evolution selection due to this lack of a unified golden
metric to quantify performances.
Reward
Func( )
Reward
Func( )
Reward
Func( )
 Evolve
Success Rate
Select
Learn
Figure 3: Evolutionary search of reward functions for de-
fined tasks with deterministic success functions such that the
success rate can be reliably computed and used as a measure
of fitness.
Success Determination: Fast and Slow. Distinguishing
whether specific behaviors fulfill a task at each step (referred
to as fast success determination), as opposed to assessing
after fixed intervals of execution (as slow success determi-
nation), is pivotal in reinforcement learning. Employing fast
success determination enables the agent to receive sparse re-
wards in real-time and terminate actions promptly to prevent
potentially adverse explorations. As a complement, the slow
success determination, which can be an independent post-
training evaluation, makes sense when the fast counterpart
is not feasible/reliable. For example, the human examina-
tion of learned RL behaviors, especially from a draft suc-
cess function to debug, can be regarded as a slow success
determination.
Traditionally in RL, the (fast) success determination for a
specific task is programmed by humans into a function that
is called at every physics step. Without resorting to human
efforts to exhaustively construct such success conditions, we
let LLMs generate success functions as well. These are be-
ing composed similarly to reward functions but with a binary
output to indicate how the task is completed. Nevertheless,
the soundness of the success function requires investigation.
Given that the LLM serves dual roles as both a “player” (for
reward function optimization) and as a “referee” (for fast
success determination), employing the resultant success rate
as the fitness function for evolution may jeopardize learning
stability and trustworthiness. (See also Fig. 7 and Sec. 4.2
for further discussion of the undesired behaviors stemming
from evolution with incorrect fitness measurement.)
The success function and reward function form a chicken-
egg relation in that 1) the reward function search relies on
reliable success determination and, meanwhile, 2) it is un-
feasible to verify the success function prior to the learning.
As a result, it is challenging to have an evolutionary search
for both at the same time. To establish a stable learning cy-
cle, we propose coordinating both fast and slow success de-
terminations for enhanced reliability. Our approach involves
the following steps:
fast: sample a set of success functions that are used un-
changed throughout skill learning, based on which an
LLM launches RL training and deterministically selects
reward function survivors, with the hypothesis that deter-
mining success is much more attainable than program-
ming an applicable reward function.
slow: prompt an independent vision language model to addi-
tionally examine the success of survivor candidates, be-
fore passing them on to the next evolutionary generation.

=== PAGE 4 ===
In practice, we apply GPT-4V(ision)2 to describe and as-
sess the reinforced robot behaviors which are deemed
successful according to success functions (positives), se-
curing a robust learning loop without human supervision.
Since there are many more unsuccessful behaviors (neg-
atives), and false negatives are less common and less
harmful3, we do not additionally examine them due to
the high assessment cost.
Behavior
Statistics
Policy
Reward
Func( )Reward
Func( )
Reward
Func( )
Success
Func ()Success
Func ()
Success
Func( )
Reinforcement
Learning
Evolve
GPT-4V
Syntax Check
Initialization
slow
fast
Figure 4: The evolutionary skill learning procedure of ASD
involves an LLM composing a bunch of both reward and
success functions (left, both are also conditioned on the en-
vironmental and robotic information as during task proposal,
omitted here for simplicity), corresponding reinforcement
learning to train policies (middle), and evolutionary search
with both learning statistics, e.g., success rate, and GPT-4V
assessment (right).
Early Misconduct Check. In practice, LLMs may gener-
ate unacceptable function designs, e.g. trying to import un-
supported third-party Python modules or produce nonsensi-
cal outputs (See Appendix A.3 for an example). Some of
the potential bugs can be bypassed by carefully designed
prompts, while others should be examined at runtime by
a Python interpreter. Instead of directly launching RL and
feeding back LLMs all kinds of execution errors at the end,
as is in Eureka (Ma et al. 2023), we carry out early syn-
tax checks and loop until the function generations meet cer-
tain requirements. This separate check reduces unnecessary
waiting time for simulation preparations and provides an ef-
ficient reward search that focuses only on performance feed-
back. See Fig. 4 for an overview of the evolutionary skill
learning procedure and Fig. 12, Fig. 13, Fig. 14 and Fig. 15
in Appendix B for detailed prompts.
Skill-RAG. RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation, (Gao
et al. 2024)) technique, which basically extracts relevant in-
formation from a local data pool into prompts, has been
widely applied to enhance LLMs. In our case of skill learn-
ing, since the success and reward functions are exhaustively
found by evolutionary search and the diverse skills attached
to the same environment may share common aspects, we use
2https://openai.com/research/gpt-4v-system-card.
3False positives appear only when reward functions are better
composed than the success functions, being less common accord-
ing to the hypothesis above. Besides, failures will not contaminate
the existing skill library, being less harmful than false positives re-
garding possible future executions.
the RAG technique to prompt LLMs with previously verified
functions to reduce the corresponding searching space.
3.3
On-demand Skill Learning with Top-Down
Quest Decomposition
ASD initially learns skills starting from similar environmen-
tal reset states s0 ∼ρ0, where ρ0 indicates the initial state
distribution with limited randomness, such as object place-
ment. Consequently, some LLM-suggested skills cannot be
trained if the pre-conditions are not satisfied. For exam-
ple, a skill of “placing an object” requires the ini-
tial state of having the object picked. An intuitive solution is
to configure the learning environment open-ended/reset-free
(Gupta et al. 2021; Wang et al. 2023), where an LLM contin-
ually observes the changes and proposes tasks to complete.
However, it challenges both the dynamic sensing ability of
LLM as well as RL in practice, especially when RL is accel-
erated by learning in many parallel environments. Another
way is to reset the environment to the final state of executed
skills, thereby exploring sequentially arranged further skills
conditioned on already collected skills. Since the bottom-up
bootstrapping of skills leads to an explosion of possibilities,
we introduce a top-down on-demand learning strategy for
incoming quests, namely, complex tasks.
Given a quest, which can be either from human instruction
or from the failure pool during the skill discovery phase, an
LLM is prompted to decompose it into a sequence of sub-
tasks. This decompose-and-conquer strategy has been suc-
cessfully verified to work (Ahn et al. 2022; Zhao et al. 2023).
However, being different from existing approaches that only
allow a decomposition into a limited set of subtasks that can
be completed with known skills (bottom-up for completion),
our method, as illustrated in Fig. 5, allows the LLM to come
up with reasonable yet novel skills to be learned on demand
with ASD, being more flexible and generalizable for unseen
tasks.
...
Quest
Decompose
Learn/Query
Execution
Subtask
trainable
frozen
Figure 5: Top: By chaining together learned skills, ASD can
further learn a new skill πi on demand. Bottom: ASD solves
quests, namely challenging tasks, with top-down decompo-
sition and skill learning, where the skill library expands for
each subtask’s completion.
To avoid the forgetting problem in multitask policy learn-
ing, we learn individual policy networks for each RL launch
and only keep the surviving ones according to their perfor-
mance in the evolution loop. As for learning of the i-th on-
demand skill, since its initial state is reset as the final state
of the last stacked skill πi−1, i.e., si
0 = si−1
T
∼ρπi−1, we
initialize the policy weights from the last learned skill rather
than randomly, πi ←πi−1. This maintains si
0 at the begin-
ning of learning and ensures a smooth transition from there

=== PAGE 5 ===
when being gradually optimized.
4
Experiment
With the following setup of experiments, we aim to answer
the following research questions:
Q1. What kind of tasks will be proposed by LLMs? (Sec. 4.1)
Q2. Can ASD acquire reliable skills automatically? (Sec. 4.2)
Q3. How RL and RAG influence skill learning? (Sec. 4.3)
Q4. Can challenging tasks be completed by stacking learned
skills? (Sec. 4.4)
Environment. We build the simulation in Isaac Sim simula-
tor4 since it supports parallel environment simulation, which
dramatically accelerates the trials of RL with various reward
functions. We set up a table scenario with Franka Emika
Panda robotic arm, which has 7 DoF and a two-finger grip-
per. On the table, several objects are randomly placed in
front of the arm, with a drawer that can be opened. It is a sin-
gle scenario, but it enables multiple tasks. See Fig. 6 for the
environment setup, with all assets5 available in Isaac Sim.
Robot: 7-DoF Joint Position Control, 
    with a gripper of 0~1 continuous open size
Objects: 
    - Cube A (colored and texted)
    - Cube B (colored)
    - Plate
    - Drawer
    - Dummy target marker
4096 Envs
Figure 6: The simulated scenario setup in Isaac Sim with
parallel environments for RL training.
LLMs. We employ gpt-3.5-turbo to propose tasks
and generate reward and fast success functions since it
shows a good programming ability while being accept-
able regarding cost. For the slow assessment of behav-
iors that were positively evaluated by fast success func-
tions, we replay learned policies and record resulting behav-
iors as videos, from which we extract keyframes and apply
gpt-4-vision-preview, which verifies the success of
task completion.
Learning. With a temperature of 1, the LLM samples 3 suc-
cess functions in each iteration, based on each, 3 reward
functions are further sampled to launch RL training and to
evolve. We set the number of generations of evolutionary
search to 3. For RL training, we use coordinate states of ob-
jects as the state input, and to avoid control lag caused by
inverse kinematics for paralleled environments, the action
space is set to be the robot joint position space. For optimiza-
tion, we apply the RL framework rsl rl6 implemented by
Orbit (Mittal et al. 2023), where PPO (Schulman et al. 2017)
is applied with the fixed same parameters across all poten-
tial tasks. For each RL iteration, we configure the maximum
4https://docs.omniverse.nvidia.com/isaacsim
5https://docs.omniverse.nvidia.com/isaacsim/latest/common/
NVIDIA Omniverse License Agreement.html license.
6https://github.com/leggedrobotics/rsl rl
permissible physics steps to 250, with 4096 parallel envi-
ronments, and a total learning duration of 2000 episodes.
We train ASD on 6 NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1080 Ti GPUs,
where each proposed task takes around 6 hours to complete.
Baseline and Ablation. Traditional RL-based skill discov-
ery methods acquire diverse yet non-semantic skills, we
omit this comparison but provide an alternative skill learn-
ing strategy other than the RL component in ASD frame-
work. Completing unseen tasks with code LLMs attracts
increasing attention (Liang et al. 2022; Huang et al. 2023;
Wang et al. 2023). We take VoxPoser (Huang et al. 2023) as
a baseline for acquiring newly proposed skills. Besides, to
illustrate the necessity of the skill-RAG trick, we re-learn
skills but stop on any verified ones for counting minimal
GPT calls. We report the reduction ratio of having skill-
RAG, i.e., minimal GPT calls w/ skill-RAG over minimal
calls w/o functions in the prompts (cf. Sec.4.3).
4.1
Q1. What kind of tasks can be proposed by
LLMs?
Given the table manipulation scenario, the LLM could po-
tentially propose numerous possible tasks. Tab. 1 shows the
first 10 proposed tasks in order, from which we have the fol-
lowing quick observations:
• The complexity of tasks increases with the iteration of
the proposal, though not all of them are intuitively mean-
ingful to acquire.
• Most of the proposed tasks are meaningful and com-
pletable under the setup. Some of the tasks are not appro-
priately proposed due to LLM’s misunderstanding of the
initial environment setup. For example, the initial state is
set with the drawer closed, so “close the drawer”
should not be proposed to learn under this circumstance.
• We also notice several duplicates that differ in the literal
expression but resemble each other at a semantic level.
Further prompt engineering or a post-check of task pro-
posals may help reduce such inappropriate trials.
• Since all of the tasks are parameter-free language instruc-
tions, “reach cube A” and “reach cube B” are
considered as different skills by the LLM.
As can be observed from the task proposal list, the tasks
are generally atomic and meaningful, but there is still room
for improvement, especially in the understanding of the
given initial status of the environment. Minimal human ef-
fort to examine non-learnable tasks becomes necessary in
this case. In this work, we only prompt the coding LLM with
text. Future research involving mixed modalities, e.g., visual
observation or even point cloud (Zhang et al. 2024), has the
promise to alleviate this phenomenon.
4.2
Q2. Can ASD acquire reliable skills
automatically?
To evaluate whether the proposed skills have been learned,
we further report the learning status briefly described with
two measures: 1) number of acquired skill options, i.e.,
available skill options deemed successful according to both
fast and slow success determination (i.e., success function

=== PAGE 6 ===
Task Description
#H/O.
#H/C.
w/ RAG
RL
Vox.
1
Reach cube A
4/4
2/2
1.00
✓
✓
2
Reach cube B
8/8
1/1
0.21
✓
✓
3
Reach the plate
7/7
2/2
0.22
✓
✓
4
Pick up the cube A
4/5
0/4
0.98
✓
✗
5
Pick up the cube B
2/2
0/4
0.30
✓
✗
6
Slide cube A from its current position to a target
position on the table
3/3
0/6
1.20
✓
✗
7
Open the drawer
1/2
0/10
0.88
✓
✗
8
Pick up the plate
3/3
0/0
0.66
✓
✗
9
Place the plate onto a target position on the table
4/6
0/12
0.88
✓
✗
10
Close the drawer
-/3
-/6
-
✗
✗
11
Align cube A and cube B to target positions that
are apart from each other.
0/0
0/10
-
✗
✗
12
Close the drawer with cube A inside.
0/0
0/3
-
✗
✗
13
Gripper open/close toggle
1/2
0/4
1.20
✓
✓
14
Slide cube B to the table edge without toppling it,
aiming for a target position near the edge.
2/2
0/0
0.83
✓
✗
15
Align end-effector center over the drawer handle
without opening or closing the drawer.
2/2
1/2
0.76
✓
✓
16
Navigate the gripper to a target pose above cube B
without touching it.
3/4
1/1
0.44
✓
✓
17
Gently push the drawer to a partially open or
closed position.
1/1
0/4
0.88
✓
✗
18
Position cube A directly in front of the drawer
handle without blocking the drawer from opening.
0/2
0/1
-
✗
✗
19
Swap positions of cube A and cube B without
grasping.
0/0
0/3
-
✗
✗
20
Move end-effector over cube A.
23/23
7/7
0.21
✓
✗
21
Push cube A and cube B close to each other.
1/2
0/31
0.32
✓
✗
22
Move to a target position on the table without
interacting with objects.
33/33
1/2
0.18
✓
✓
. . .
Table 1: Snippet of task proposals based on the table manipulation scenario. The learning results are briefly reported by counting
the number of skill options (#O.), the number of skill candidates (#C.), and the number of corresponding validations by human
examination (#H.), respectively. The w/ RAG column shows the minimal GPT calls (for one skill option acquisition) reduction
ratio (the smaller the better) of having skill-RAG over previously without skill-RAG. The skill mastering result of RL and a
baseline skill learning strategy VoxPoser (Vox.) are marked as ✓(success, with ≥90% success rate) or ✗(failure).
and GPT-4V respectively); 2) number of acquired skill can-
didates, those policies that are falsely considered positive
according to composed success functions since failed by the
vision language model. As ground truth, we manually exam-
ine them and report the number of human-examined valida-
tions.
As shown in the skill option column in Tab. 1, ASD auto-
matically collected many valid skill options. However, the
skill candidates column shows that many behaviors were
falsely positively evaluated by the coding LLM, necessi-
tating an additional checking mechanism to avoid potential
false learning cycles (See Fig. 7). Due to the introduction
of slow success determination, the false positives are dra-
matically filtered out, making the learning cycle stable and
acquired skills trustworthy.
We stop exploring further skills after reaching 24 propos-
als. We found that 22/24 of them are reasonably learnable
(except No. 10 for wrongly deemed initial state and No. 19
for difficulties in a guarantee of “without grasping” require-
ment), among which 17/23 are acquired directly as atomic
skills. More skill-learning details and statistical reports can
be found in Tab. 3 and Tab. 4 in Appendix. A.4.
4.3
Q3. How RL and RAG influence skill learning?
By alternatively applying VoxPoser (Huang et al. 2023) as
the skill learning strategy, we showcase the advantages of
RL to learn skills from scratch. As is shown in Tab. 1, many
of the tasks can be accomplished by RL but failed by Vox-
Poser, which stems from the nature that VoxPoser requires
more careful human effort to pre-define spatial hooks and
even basic motion primitives, lacking an exploration abil-
ity as RL possesses. Since our aim is to learn skills with
minimal or even no human involvement, we do not exhaus-
tively craft primitives for Voxposer but only provide basic
movement examples. As a result, this baseline performs well
on tasks that only require approaching certain positions but
fails most of the time when more complex manipulation is
required, whereas RL-based skill learning, due to its explo-

=== PAGE 7 ===
m
is
-
b
la
m
e
o
v
e
rt
r
u
s
t
m
is
-
p
r
o
p
o
s
e
d
e
p
r
e
s
s
d
is
c
a
r
d
ev
o
l
v
i
n
g
w
ith incor
r
e
c
t
f
i
t
n
e
ss
Reward
Func( )
False Positive
Cycle
False Negative
Cycle
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
Success
Func( )
Skill Library
Task
Failure Pool
poor
poor
Figure 7: Left: the generated success determination confi-
dently but wrongly assesses a task success as positive, lead-
ing to an undesired false positive learning cycle with a con-
taminated skill library and non-accomplishable future task
proposals. Right: negative evaluation on indeed successful
behaviors will misguide the reward function search and pre-
vent skill acquisition, resulting in a false negative learning
cycle.
ration instinct, successfully adapts to the environment and
masters more skills.
Tab. 1 also shows the benefits of prompting LLMs with
previously acknowledged success and reward functions.
With the RAG technique as the function design hints, the
minimal required GPT calls for learning the first skill option
are dramatically reduced. We believe that, with the increas-
ing complexity of any robotic environment, the skill-RAG
trick will be a crucial component for the efficiency of agen-
tic skill discovery.
4.4
Q4. Can challenging tasks be completed by
stacking skills?
After the initial collection of skills, we empirically find that
some of the proposed tasks require a long horizon of execu-
tion, and are too challenging for the LLM to write effective
reward functions. These tasks usually require manipulations
of different entities, e.g., a “stacking” task requires one
object being picked up as the first step and then locating an-
other object to align them to each other. However, as we
observed in the skill discovery phase, the best-performing
behaviors are just picking up the cube, which leads to it be-
ing held aloft with no further progress.
As described above (cf. Fig. 5), we employ LLMs to di-
vide the long-horizon tasks into a sequence of short-horizon
ones and learn to stack them to solve the original quest.
Tab. 2 shows two examples of complex tasks that ASD fails
to master in the initial skill learning phase, but succeeds by
dividing and conquering subtasks individually. This shows
that the policy πi can be efficiently learned on top of a stack
of existing skills, showcasing the potential of ASD for learn-
ing composed skills.
5
Conclusion
Agentic Skill Discovery (ASD) aligns with a broader vision
of agentic AI systems (Shavit et al. 2023; Sequoia Capital
Task Decomposition
#H/O. #H/C.
1*
Stack cube A on top of
cube B
1) Pick up cube A
-
-
2)
Place cube A on top of
cube B carefully, aligning
their surfaces to stack
them
1/2
0/22
2*
Put cube A on top of the
plate
1) Pick up cube A
-
-
2)
Place cube A on top of
the plate
3/3
0/3
Table 2: Snippet of quests completion by stacking acquired
skills and on-demand learned ones.
2024), enabling robots to understand complex embodiments
and autonomously pursue intricate goals with minimal hu-
man intervention. By using LLMs to devise, motivate, and
improve necessary learning processes, we have shown that
language-conditioned robotic skills can be discovered from
scratch, where RL and RAG techniques are beneficial for the
efficacy and efficiency of skill learning. Using a vision lan-
guage model for third-party behavior assessment dramati-
cally prevents the skill library from being influenced by false
positives. Moreover, ASD also promises to tackle challeng-
ing, long-horizon tasks by dividing and conquering on de-
mand, further effectively extending the skills. In principle,
ASD can adapt to diverse embodiments, we leave further
this exploration for future research.
6
Limitations and Future Work
As discussed in Sec. 4.1, employing text-based LLMs can
suffer from inaccuracies in sensing the environment. The re-
liance on GPT-4V for describing and assessing reinforced
robot behaviors may introduce biases or limitations in the
evaluation process. Future work could involve fine-tuning a
specialized robot behavior assessment model by leveraging
existing robotic datasets. In addition, a limitation lies in the
applicability of this method to real-world scenarios, espe-
cially in cases where parallel learning is necessary. Address-
ing this challenge may entail a transition from real-world
environments to simulations (real2sim, where the assump-
tion of having access to the environment knowledge is still
valid in simulation), and back again (sim2real, (H¨ofer et al.
2021; G¨ade et al. 2022)). Furthermore, there is a need for
extensive real-world experimentation and discussion to fully
explore its agenticness (Shavit et al. 2023).
Ethics Statement
As by many other LLM-based agents, some risks inevitably
arise if programming code is executed directly without thor-
ough safety examination. Although we have not observed
disastrous misconduct, we do observe generated nonsensical
outputs sometimes (see Appendix A.3). It is highly recom-
mended to run programming-oriented frameworks first in a
sandbox to evaluate and minimize generative risks.

=== PAGE 8 ===
References
Ahn, M.; Brohan, A.; Brown, N.; Chebotar, Y.; Cortes, O.;
David, B.; Finn, C.; Fu, C.; Gopalakrishnan, K.; Hausman,
K.; Herzog, A.; Ho, D.; Hsu, J.; Ibarz, J.; Ichter, B.; Irpan,
A.; Jang, E.; Ruano, R. J.; Jeffrey, K.; Jesmonth, S.; Joshi,
N. J.; Julian, R.; Kalashnikov, D.; Kuang, Y.; Lee, K.-H.;
Levine, S.; Lu, Y.; Luu, L.; Parada, C.; Pastor, P.; Quiambao,
J.; Rao, K.; Rettinghouse, J.; Reyes, D.; Sermanet, P.; Siev-
ers, N.; Tan, C.; Toshev, A.; Vanhoucke, V.; Xia, F.; Xiao, T.;
Xu, P.; Xu, S.; Yan, M.; and Zeng, A. 2022. Do As I Can,
Not As I Say: Grounding Language in Robotic Affordances.
(arXiv:2204.01691): 2204.01691.
Celik, B.; Ahmetoglu, A.; Ugur, E.; and Oztop, E. 2023. De-
velopmental Scaffolding with Large Language Models. In
IEEE International Conference on Development and Learn-
ing, 2309.00904. arXiv.
Du, Y.; Watkins, O.; Wang, Z.; Colas, C.; Darrell, T.;
Abbeel, P.; Gupta, A.; and Andreas, J. 2023. Guiding Pre-
training in Reinforcement Learning with Large Language
Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.06692, 2302.06692.
Eysenbach, B.; Gupta, A.; Ibarz, J.; and Levine, S. 2019. Di-
versity Is All You Need: Learning Skills without a Reward
Function. In International Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations.
G¨ade, C.; Kerzel, M.; Strahl, E.; and Wermter, S. 2022.
Sim-to-Real Neural Learning with Domain Randomisation
for Humanoid Robot Grasping. In Pimenidis, E.; Angelov,
P.; Jayne, C.; Papaleonidas, A.; and Aydin, M., eds., Artifi-
cial Neural Networks and Machine Learning – ICANN 2022,
342–354. Cham: Springer International Publishing. ISBN
978-3-031-15919-0.
Gao, Y.; Xiong, Y.; Gao, X.; Jia, K.; Pan, J.; Bi, Y.; Dai,
Y.; Sun, J.; Wang, M.; and Wang, H. 2024.
Retrieval-
Augmented Generation for Large Language Models: A Sur-
vey. (arXiv:2312.10997): 2312.10997.
Gregor, K.; Rezende, D. J.; and Wierstra, D. 2017. Vari-
ational Intrinsic Control. In 5th International Conference
on Learning Representations, ICLR 2017, Toulon, France,
April 24-26, 2017, Workshop Track Proceedings. OpenRe-
view.net.
Gupta, A.; Yu, J.; Zhao, T. Z.; Kumar, V.; Rovinsky, A.; Xu,
K.; Devlin, T.; and Levine, S. 2021. Reset-Free Reinforce-
ment Learning via Multi-Task Learning: Learning Dexter-
ous Manipulation Behaviors without Human Intervention.
(arXiv:2104.11203): 2104.11203.
H¨ofer, S.; Bekris, K.; Handa, A.; Gamboa, J. C.; Mozi-
fian, M.; Golemo, F.; Atkeson, C.; Fox, D.; Goldberg, K.;
Leonard, J.; Karen Liu, C.; Peters, J.; Song, S.; Welinder, P.;
and White, M. 2021. Sim2Real in Robotics and Automa-
tion: Applications and Challenges. IEEE Transactions on
Automation Science and Engineering, 18(2): 398–400.
Huang, W.; Wang, C.; Zhang, R.; Li, Y.; Wu, J.; and Fei-
Fei, L. 2023. VoxPoser: Composable 3D Value Maps for
Robotic Manipulation with Language Models. In 7th Annual
Conference on Robot Learning.
Li, M.; Zhao, X.; Lee, J. H.; Weber, C.; and Wermter, S.
2023.
Internally Rewarded Reinforcement Learning.
In
Krause, A.; Brunskill, E.; Cho, K.; Engelhardt, B.; Sabato,
S.; and Scarlett, J., eds., Proceedings of the 40th Interna-
tional Conference on Machine Learning, volume 202 of
Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, 2302.00270.
PMLR.
Liang, J.; Huang, W.; Xia, F.; Xu, P.; Hausman, K.; ichter, b.;
Florence, P.; and Zeng, A. 2022. Code as Policies: Language
Model Programs for Embodied Control. In Workshop on
Language and Robotics at CoRL 2022, 2209.07753.
Liu, Z.; Bahety, A.; and Song, S. 2023. REFLECT: Summa-
rizing Robot Experiences for Failure Explanation and Cor-
rection. (arXiv:2306.15724): 2306.15724.
Ma, Y. J.; Liang, W.; Wang, G.; Huang, D.-A.; Bastani,
O.; Jayaraman, D.; Zhu, Y.; Fan, L.; and Anandkumar, A.
2023.
Eureka: Human-Level Reward Design via Coding
Large Language Models. (arXiv:2310.12931): 2310.12931.
Mandi, Z.; Jain, S.; and Song, S. 2023.
RoCo: Dialectic
Multi-Robot Collaboration with Large Language Models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.04738, 2307.04738.
Mittal, M.; Yu, C.; Yu, Q.; Liu, J.; Rudin, N.; Hoeller, D.;
Yuan, J. L.; Singh, R.; Guo, Y.; Mazhar, H.; Mandlekar, A.;
Babich, B.; State, G.; Hutter, M.; and Garg, A. 2023. Or-
bit: A Unified Simulation Framework for Interactive Robot
Learning Environments.
IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters, 8(6): 2301.04195.
Ng, A. Y.; Harada, D.; and Russell, S. 1999. Policy Invari-
ance under Reward Transformations: Theory and Applica-
tion to Reward Shaping. In Icml, volume 99, 278–287.
Park,
S.;
Lee,
K.;
Lee,
Y.;
and
Abbeel,
P.
2023.
Controllability-Aware Unsupervised Skill Discovery.
In
arXiv Preprint arXiv:2302.05103, 2302.05103.
Peng, X. B.; Guo, Y.; Halper, L.; Levine, S.; and Fidler, S.
2022.
ASE: Large-scale Reusable Adversarial Skill Em-
beddings for Physically Simulated Characters. ACM Trans.
Graph., 41(4).
Schulman, J.; Wolski, F.; Dhariwal, P.; Radford, A.; and
Klimov, O. 2017. Proximal Policy Optimization Algorithms.
CoRR, abs/1707.06347: 1707.06347.
Sequoia Capital. 2024. What’s next for AI Agentic Work-
flows Ft. Andrew Ng of AI Fund.
Sharma, A.; Gu, S.; Levine, S.; Kumar, V.; and Hausman, K.
2020. Dynamics-Aware Unsupervised Discovery of Skills.
In International Conference on Learning Representations.
Shavit, Y.; Agarwal, S.; Brundage, M.; Adler, S.; O’Keefe,
C.; Campbell, R.; Lee, T.; Mishkin, P.; Eloundou, T.; Hickey,
A.; Slama, K.; Ahmad, L.; McMillan, P.; Beutel, A.; Pas-
sos, A.; and Robinson, D. G. 2023. Practices for Governing
Agentic AI Systems.
Wang, G.; Xie, Y.; Jiang, Y.; Mandlekar, A.; Xiao, C.;
Zhu, Y.; Fan, L.; and Anandkumar, A. 2023. Voyager: An
Open-Ended Embodied Agent with Large Language Mod-
els. (arXiv:2305.16291): 2305.16291.
Wu, J.; Antonova, R.; Kan, A.; Lepert, M.; Zeng, A.; Song,
S.; Bohg, J.; Rusinkiewicz, S.; and Funkhouser, T. 2023.
Tidybot: Personalized Robot Assistance with Large Lan-
guage Models.
