
=== PAGE 1 ===
A Plan Reuse Mechanism for LLM-Driven Agent
Guopeng Li
University of Science and Technology
of China
Hefei, China
Ruiqi Wu
University of Science and Technology
of China
Hefei, China
Haisheng Tan∗
University of Science and Technology
of China
Hefei, China
Abstract
Integrating large language models (LLMs) into personal assistants,
like Xiao Ai and Blue Heart V, effectively enhances their ability to
interact with humans, solve complex tasks, and manage IoT devices.
Such assistants are also termed LLM-driven agents. Upon receiving
user requests, the LLM-driven agent generates plans using an LLM,
executes these plans through various tools, and then returns the
response to the user. During this process, the latency for generating
a plan with an LLM can reach tens of seconds, significantly degrad-
ing user experience. Real-world dataset analysis shows that about
30% of the requests received by LLM-driven agents are identical
or similar, which allows the reuse of previously generated plans to
reduce latency. However, it is difficult to accurately define the simi-
larity between the request texts received by the LLM-driven agent
through directly evaluating the original request texts. Moreover,
the diverse expressions of natural language and the unstructured
format of plan texts make implementing plan reuse challenging.
To address these issues, we present and implement a plan reuse
mechanism for LLM-driven agents called AgentReuse. AgentReuse
leverages the similarities and differences among requests’ semantics
and uses intent classification to evaluate the similarities between re-
quests and enable the reuse of plans. Experimental results based on
a real-world dataset demonstrate that AgentReuse achieves a 93%
effective plan reuse rate, an F1 score of 0.9718, and an accuracy of
0.9459 in evaluating request similarities, reducing latency by 93.12%
compared with baselines without using the reuse mechanism.
Keywords
Large language models (LLMs), Agent, Semantic Cache, Similarity
evaluation
1
Introduction
In recent years, with the growth in the number of IoT devices and
the rise of technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) and edge
computing, the Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) has received
widespread attention as a future trend in IoT development [48]. As
typical AIoT applications, personal assistants such as Xiao Ai [55]
and Huawei Xiaoyi [18] have improved the utility and integration
of IoT devices in fields like smart homes and smart transportation
by simplifying the user control process, thereby enhancing the
interactivity and automation levels of AIoT systems.
Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT,
DeepSeek, and Qwen have demonstrated exceptional capabilities
∗Corresponding author.
This paper is an English version of A Plan Reuse Mechanism for LLM-Driven Agent
(https://crad.ict.ac.cn/en/article/doi/10.7544/issn1000-1239.202440380), published in
2024 in the Journal of Computer Research and Development.
in understanding and generating human language, bringing new
opportunities for the development of personal assistants [10]. Man-
ufacturers like Google, Xiaomi, and VIVO have launched personal
assistants based on large models, aiming to leverage LLMs to im-
prove abilities in interacting with humans, completing complex
tasks, and efficiently managing and controlling applications and
various IoT devices [24]. Such assistants are termed personal LLM-
driven agents [51], or simply agents in this paper.
An LLM-driven agent uses an LLM as its core controller, sup-
plemented by capabilities such as planning, memory, and tool use
[49]. By coordinating these different capabilities, it completes tasks
submitted by users. When an agent receives a task request from
a user, it first utilizes the LLM’s planning capability to generate a
plan, decomposing a complex task into a series of simple sub-tasks.
Then, by invoking tools such as APIs, code interpreters, and search
engines, and combining them with the memory possessed by the
LLM (such as user personal preferences), it executes the sub-tasks
to complete the entire mission.
For example, when a user submits the request "Book a ticket from
Hefei to Beijing for the day after tomorrow," the plan generated by
the agent using the LLM might be:
(1) Query the date for the day after tomorrow;
(2) Query the weather;
(3) Query flight schedules and prices from Hefei to Beijing;
(4) Query train schedules and prices from Hefei to Beijing;
(5) Compare flight and train prices;
(6) Query the user’s personal schedule;
(7) Combine the above information and user preferences to
recommend a travel plan.
After deriving the plan, the agent completes sub-tasks 1, 2, 3, 4,
and 6 by calling applications on the mobile phone or open APIs;
completes sub-task 5 via a code interpreter; and finally, for sub-task
7, combines weather, price information, personal schedule, and
personal preferences stored in memory to obtain the travel plan.
In this example, we can see that agents integrated with LLM capa-
bilities can better complete tasks by combining user personal needs
[40, 54]. However, the computation and latency costs of using LLMs
cannot be ignored. Using AutoGen [53] as the agent framework
and OpenAI’s GPT-4 API as the LLM, for the input task "Book a
ticket from Hefei to Beijing for the day after tomorrow," the latency
for returning the plan is approximately 25 seconds, consuming
2015 tokens, with a cost of $0.073 (approx. 0.53 RMB). Within the
25-second latency, the plan generation latency is about 24 seconds,
with the rest being network latency. This is because LLMs generate
plans in an auto-regressive manner, and plan texts are generally
long. A plan generation latency of 25 seconds, plus the subsequent
execution latency, significantly affects user experience. Analysis of
the personal assistant dataset in [13] and [40] indicates that about
1
arXiv:2512.21309v2  [cs.MA]  25 Dec 2025

=== PAGE 2 ===
30% of task requests in LLM-driven agents are semantically identi-
cal or similar. Therefore, caching the plans generated by the agent
using the LLM and reusing previous plans when identical or similar
requests arrive subsequently is an effective method to reduce the
response latency of LLM-driven agents [60].
Zhou et al. [4] studied caching and reuse methods for the re-
sponses of the LLM itself. By vectorizing request texts (embedding)
and comparing the semantic similarity between different request
texts, it judges whether a subsequent request can reuse the response
of a previous request. For example, "Please explain what AIoT is"
and "What is AIoT" are semantically similar; one can directly reuse
the LLM’s response to the former without generating a new intro-
duction, thereby reducing latency.
However, in the process of an LLM-driven agent handling user
requests, consider the following two requests:
• Request 1: "Book a ticket from Hefei to Beijing for the day
after tomorrow"
• Request 2: "Book a ticket from Changsha to Shanghai for
tomorrow"
If GPTCache[4] is directly adopted, and Request 2 is judged sim-
ilar to Request 1, directly returning Request 1’s response would
obviously provide wrong ticket information to the user. If Request
2 is judged dissimilar to Request 1, it results in a plan generation
latency of about 25 seconds. In fact, upon observation, it is not
difficult to find that for Request 1 and Request 2, although the time,
origin, and destination differ, the task type is the same. Therefore,
the plan steps produced by the agent should be the same, with only
the specific key parameters ("Time, Origin, Destination") being dif-
ferent. That is, Request 2 should be judged as similar to Request
1, but instead of returning Request 1’s response, Request 2 should
reuse the plan generated by the LLM for Request 1.
This paper conducts research on a plan reuse mechanism for
LLM-driven agents. Existing research mainly focuses on the caching
and reuse mechanisms for the LLM’s direct responses. Our research
faces three main challenges:
Challenge 1: How to define if requests are similar. As men-
tioned, in response caching methods, semantic similarity is defined
by vectorizing original texts. However, in LLM-driven agents, Re-
quest 1 and Request 2 have different key parameters. Tests show
that calculating similarity on raw text (with a threshold of 0.75)
judges them as dissimilar, whereas Request 2 can factually reuse
the plan for Request 1. Thus, a new method is needed to define
similarity between request texts in LLM-driven agents.
Challenge 2: How to identify key parameters. After defining
similarity, if two requests are similar, the later request can reuse the
plan of the former. During reuse, key parameters must be replaced.
In Request 1 and 2, key parameters are time (day after tomorrow vs.
tomorrow), origin (Hefei vs. Changsha), and destination (Beijing vs.
Shanghai). Intuitively, string matching could replace parameters,
but natural language contains synonyms and varying word orders
(e.g., Request 2 could be "Book me a ticket, Changsha to Shanghai,
tomorrow"), which string matching cannot easily handle. Therefore,
a method capable of semantic-aware parameter identification is
required.
Challenge 3: How to correctly and effectively reuse plans.
Currently, plans output by agents are usually unstructured text.
Even if key parameters are identified, it is difficult to determine
which sub-task each parameter should apply to, making effective
plan reuse hard. Therefore, a method to convert unstructured text
into structured execution plans is needed.
To address the above challenges, this paper proposes Agen-
tReuse, a plan reuse mechanism for LLM-driven agents, and im-
plements it with millisecond-level extra latency. The main contri-
butions of this paper are in three aspects:
(1) Addressing the long response time of LLM-driven agents,
we formally describe and analyze the workflow of LLM-
driven agents and propose a research approach for reusing
plans generated by such agents.
(2) We propose and implement AgentReuse with low overhead.
AgentReuse identifies key parameters by leveraging the
semantic differences between request texts. After extract-
ing key parameters, it uses an intent classification-based
method to define similarity between user requests using
semantic similarity, enabling plan reuse.
(3) To verify the effectiveness of AgentReuse, we conducted
experiments using a real-world dataset. The results show
that compared to existing methods, AgentReuse achieves
an effective plan reuse rate of 93%. The F1 score for similar-
ity definition increased by 6.8 percentage points, accuracy
increased by 13.06 percentage points, and latency was re-
duced by 93.12%.
2
Background and Related Work
Focusing on the research theme of this paper, this section briefly
introduces the background knowledge and recent research progress
in two aspects: LLM-driven agents and caching & reuse methods.
2.1
LLM-driven Agents
An agent is an autonomous algorithmic system capable of environ-
mental perception, decision-making, and action execution, and has
always been a key focus of research in both academia and indus-
try. The original intention of developing agents was to simulate
the intelligent behavior of humans or other organisms, aiming to
solve problems or execute tasks automatically. However, traditional
agents face major challenges as they usually rely on heuristic rules
or are limited to specific environmental constraints, which largely
restricts their adaptability and scalability in open and dynamic
scenarios [26].
Since Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated excel-
lent capabilities in solving complex tasks, an increasing number of
research works have begun to explore using LLMs as the control
center for agents to improve their performance in open domains
and dynamic environments [35], such as the series of LLM-driven
agents represented by AutoGPT [35], AutoGen [53], HuggingGPT
[44], and MetaGPT [16].
For LLM-driven agents, researchers propose that Agent = LLM
+ Memory + Planning + Tool Use. That is, using the LLM as the
core controller, supplemented by capabilities such as planning,
memory, and tool usage, the agent completes tasks submitted by
users by coordinating these different capabilities [49]. Hong et
al. [16] designed MetaGPT, which assigns divisions of labor to
multiple agents to jointly complete the development and debugging
2

=== PAGE 3 ===
of computer software. Bram et al. [29] proposed ChemCrow, which
integrates 17 tools designed by experts to enhance the capabilities of
LLMs in the field of chemistry. ResearchAgent [3] mimics the steps
of humans writing scientific research papers, guiding the LLM to
generate complete research ideas including problem identification,
method development, and experimental design.
This paper conducts research focusing on typical LLM-driven
AIoT applications, namely personal agents. Regarding personal
agents, VIVO released Blue Heart V based on the BlueLM [46];
Xiaomi’s Xiao Ai has also integrated LLMs [55]; Google’s Pixel 8
Pro [15] and Bard assistant [17] have both integrated LLMs; and
Microsoft has integrated LLM capabilities into Microsoft Copilot
[34] and launched Copilot+PC [32]. Furthermore, AppAgent [58]
and AutoDroid [50] can execute various tasks on mobile phones by
autonomously learning and mimicking human clicking and sliding
gestures. This paper mainly focuses on personal agents, aiming to
reduce agent response latency by analyzing the similarity between
task request texts submitted by users and reusing plans generated
by the LLM.
2.2
Caching and Reuse Methods
In computer architecture, caching aims to bridge the gap between
memory access latency and processor processing speed [5, 43].
Today, the concept of caching has expanded to various fields and
plays an important role in improving computer system performance.
Structures located between different types of devices to eliminate
the impact of access time differences can be referred to as caches,
such as disk caches [27, 31, 52], CDN caches [6, 56, 57], Web caches
[36, 47], and container caches [12, 23, 42], etc. The effectiveness
of caching stems from the temporal locality of requests, meaning
that in computer applications, content that has just been requested
is likely to be requested again [45]. Caching recently requested
content for reuse in the next request can effectively reduce response
latency.
In the past two years, researchers have explored the application
of caching and reuse technologies in LLMs. Researchers have con-
ducted research on KV Cache in LLMs. Based on the calculation
characteristics of Self-Attention, Kwon et al. [21] proposed Page-
dAttention, a KV Cache management method. Zhang et al. [59]
introduced H2O to compress KV Cache based on the varying im-
portance of tokens, while Liu et al. [28] proposed CacheGen to per-
form dynamic recomputation of KV Cache, addressing system-level
challenges when LLMs process long contexts. HotPrefix [25] and
IMPRESS [7] further advance KV cache optimization, particularly
for scenarios involving shared long contexts or system prompts.
Furthermore, several studies [4, 13, 61] have focused on caching and
reusing LLM-generated responses based on semantic similarity be-
tween request texts. Specifically, Gill et al. [13] proposed a caching
and reuse method based on federated learning that considers user
privacy and similarity retrieval costs. Zhu et al. [61] provided a
theoretical analysis of caching mechanisms for LLM responses, and
Fu and Feng [4] developed open-source tools enabling develop-
ers to integrate caching and reuse mechanisms into LLMs. In the
domain of text-to-image diffusion models, the NIRVANA method
[1] reduces iterative denoising steps by reusing intermediate noise
states created during previous image generation
This paper mainly focuses on caching and reusing the plans
generated by LLM-driven agents. Existing methods mainly propose
caching and reuse methods for the responses of LLMs, which cannot
be directly applied to LLM-driven agents.
3
Workflow and Research Objectives of
LLM-Driven Agents
This section formally describes the workflow of the LLM-driven
agent studied in this paper and briefly introduces the research
objectives.
As shown in Figure 1, when the LLM-driven agent studied in
this paper serves a user:
(1) The agent receives a task request 𝑞𝑖submitted by the user,
which is a natural language text.
(2) Upon receiving the request, the agent uses the planning
capability of the LLM to generate a plan 𝑝𝑖for 𝑞𝑖.
(3) After obtaining the plan 𝑝𝑖, the agent executes the plan
using various tools such as search engines and code inter-
preters to obtain the response 𝑟𝑖. The response 𝑟𝑖can be
the natural language text desired by the user or a response
code returned after task execution (e.g., a 200 code in HTTP
services).
(4) The agent returns the response to the user.
LLM Driven Agent
User
Request
Response
LLM
generate 
plan
Tool 1
Tool 2
Tool 3
Tool 4
Tool k
…
plan
execute plan
Figure 1: Workflow of LLM-driven agent
Without loss of generality, we define 𝑄= {𝑞1,𝑞2, . . . }, 𝑃=
{𝑝1, 𝑝2, . . . }, and 𝑅= {𝑟1,𝑟2, . . . }. For request 𝑞𝑖, the time taken to
generate the plan text is referred to as the plan generation latency,
denoted as 𝑡𝑝. Specifically, 𝑡𝑝refers to the time interval from the
moment the agent receives 𝑞𝑖to the moment the plan text 𝑝𝑖gen-
eration is completed (i.e., generating the <EOS> token). The time
taken to execute the plan is referred to as the execution latency,
denoted as 𝑡𝑒. This refers to the time interval from the moment the
plan text 𝑝𝑖generation is completed to the moment the response 𝑟𝑖
is produced. The total response latency for request 𝑞𝑖is 𝑡= 𝑡𝑝+ 𝑡𝑒.
As mentioned earlier, among the task requests received by the
agent, approximately 30% are semantically identical or similar. If
we can identify identical or similar requests and reuse the plans
generated by the agent for previous requests, we can eliminate the
plan generation latency 𝑡𝑝, thereby reducing the response latency
3

=== PAGE 4 ===
and optimizing the user experience. In this paper, requests that can
factually reuse previous plans are defined as reusable requests, and
requests that factually cannot reuse previous plans are defined as
non-reusable requests.
When defining the similarity between requests, if a non-reusable
request is judged as reusable, it will lead to the reuse of an incorrect
plan, consequently returning a wrong response to the user. Con-
versely, if a reusable request is judged as non-reusable, it incurs
extra plan generation latency. Therefore, designing a method that
can accurately define the similarity between requests is essential.
Furthermore, for reusable requests, when reusing a previously
generated plan, certain parameters in the original plan need to be
replaced with the relevant parameters from the current request.
Currently, there is no method that effectively achieves parameter
replacement; that is, plan reuse cannot be effectively completed.
Thus, we also need to design a method capable of effectively reusing
plans.
This section mainly introduced the workflow of LLM-driven
agents, including four parts: receiving user requests, generating
plans, executing plans, and returning responses, and provided a
formal description. Additionally, this section defined reusable and
non-reusable requests, clarifying the importance of designing meth-
ods for accurate similarity definition and effective plan reuse.
4
Reuse Mechanism Design
This section introduces the specific content of the reuse mechanism
for LLM-driven agents proposed in this paper, AgentReuse, and
explains the workflow of AgentReuse using examples.
When an LLM-driven agent serves a user, it receives a request
𝑞𝑖, utilizes the LLM’s planning capability to obtain a plan text 𝑝𝑖,
and finally uses tools to execute the plan to get a response 𝑟𝑖. The
plan is generated by the LLM, and the plan generation latency 𝑡𝑝
is proportional to the length of the plan text; the longer the plan
text, the larger 𝑡𝑝. Using AutoGen [53] as the agent framework and
OpenAI’s GPT-4 API as the LLM, 100 tests were conducted on a
real-world dataset [40]. The results indicate that the average plan
generation latency is 31.8s. Previous research [13] and our tests on
the real-world dataset both indicate that about 30% of requests are
identical or similar. For identical or similar requests, if the plan or
response of a previous request can be reused, the response latency
can be reduced to a certain extent. Based on this, our goal is to
design a plan reuse mechanism for LLM-driven agents to reduce
response latency.
As shown in Algorithm 1 and Figure 2, AgentReuse utilizes
the semantic similarity and differences between request texts to
effectively reuse the plans of LLM-driven agents.
Next, we explain AgentReuse using the example 𝑞𝑖= "Book a
ticket from Hefei to Beijing for the day after tomorrow." First, we
vectorize the request text 𝑞𝑖and perform intent classification. In-
tent classification refers to classifying request texts into different
categories based on their semantics, utilizing semantic similarities
between different texts to group them into the same intent cate-
gory. In personal assistants, intent categories mainly include coarse
classifications such as query, play, send, download, and book. The
intent of the current example 𝑞𝑖is "Book." Furthermore, slot filling
tasks are usually performed jointly with intent classification tasks
Algorithm 1: AgentReuse
Require: Requests 𝑄= {𝑞1,𝑞2, . . . }, Cache {𝑐0,𝑐1, . . . ,𝑐𝑛}, Intent
Categories, Similarity threshold 𝛾.
Ensure: Response 𝑅= {𝑟1,𝑟2, . . . }.
1: Initialize Cache as empty.
2: for each 𝑞𝑖do
3:
Vectorize 𝑞𝑖to get 𝐸(𝑞𝑖).
4:
Perform intent classification and parameter identification
on 𝑞𝑖, obtaining intent 𝑐𝑖and parameters 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑖.
5:
if 𝑐𝑖≠Undefined Intent then
6:
Extract parameters 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑖from 𝑞𝑖to get 𝑞−
𝑖and 𝐸(𝑞−
𝑖).
7:
Perform similarity search for 𝐸(𝑞−
𝑖) in Cache (within
category 𝑐𝑖).
8:
if Highest similarity score ≥𝛾then
9:
Reuse plan 𝑝𝑚from 𝑞𝑚(where 𝐸(𝑞−
𝑚) has the highest
similarity with 𝐸(𝑞−
𝑖) and ≥𝛾).
10:
Execute plan 𝑝𝑚using tools with parameters 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑖to
get response 𝑟𝑖.
11:
else
12:
Call LLM to generate plan 𝑝𝑖.
13:
Execute plan using tools to get response 𝑟𝑖.
14:
Store ⟨𝐸(𝑞−
𝑖), 𝑝𝑖,𝑐𝑖⟩into Cache.
15:
end if
16:
else
17:
Call LLM to generate plan 𝑝𝑖.
18:
Execute plan using tools to get response 𝑟𝑖.
19:
end if
20: end for
21: return Response 𝑅.
Intent 
Clf.
Request
Param. 
Ext.
Similarity 
Eval.
Cache
<Request, Plan>
<Request, Plan>
<⋮, ⋮>
<Request, Plan>
Generate 
Plan
Response
Reusable
Not 
Reusable
Save to Cache
Param. 
ID
Process Flow
Data Query
Data Storage
Execute 
Plan
Figure 2: Flowchart of AgentReuse
[30]. Slot filling is used to identify key parameters and temporarily
store the parameters "(day after tomorrow, Hefei, Beijing)" into
𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑖. Subsequently, within the intent category "Book," parameter
extraction and similarity definition are performed. For parameter
extraction, in the example, the parameters "(day after tomorrow,
Hefei, Beijing)" need to be extracted. Removing these parameters
from the request text 𝑞𝑖yields 𝑞−
𝑖= "Book a ticket from to". This
allows it to be distinguished from tasks like booking restaurants
or meeting rooms within the "Book" class, finding requests more
4

=== PAGE 5 ===
similar to "Book a ticket from to" and reusing the plans of similar
requests. Similarity is defined by the similarity threshold 𝛾. 𝛾is an
empirical value, and this paper sets the default value of 𝛾to 0.75.
To effectively reuse plans, when reusing a plan, the previously
identified parameters 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑖are used as input, utilizing the semantic
differences between request texts. When there is no request similar
to 𝑞−
𝑖in the cache, the LLM is called to generate a plan, which is
then executed using tools to get response 𝑟𝑖, and ⟨𝐸(𝑞−
𝑖), 𝑝𝑖,𝑐𝑖⟩is
stored in the cache. Here, 𝐸(𝑞−
𝑖) is the vectorized 𝑞−
𝑖, 𝑝𝑖is the plan
generated by the LLM, and 𝑐𝑖is the intent category of text 𝑞𝑖. When
𝑞𝑖is not within the "Book" intent category, i.e., the intent category
is undefined, the LLM is directly called to generate a plan 𝑝𝑖, which
is executed to get the response 𝑟𝑖. It is worth noting that in Figure
2, parameter extraction, similarity definition, and cache lookup are
performed within the current intent category, which can reduce
search costs.
In AgentReuse, this paper classifies the intent of user requests
by utilizing the semantic similarity between request texts, while
simultaneously utilizing the semantic differences between request
texts to identify and extract key parameters. We use the identified
key parameters to perform similarity evaluation and parameter re-
placement on request texts, achieving accurate similarity definition
for requests received by LLM-driven agents and effective reuse of
plans. Additionally, since requests submitted by users may involve
real-time changing information, such as flight information, this
paper reuses the plan rather than the response.
Compared to the execution process of existing LLM-driven agents,
AgentReuse incurs additional costs in terms of storage and latency.
(1) Storage Cost: AgentReuse needs to use models to vectorize
texts and classify intents. When the model is running, it
occupies VRAM. Vectorized texts and plans generated by
the LLM need to be cached, occupying storage space.
(2) Latency Cost: Compared to the existing execution process,
the new workflow introduced by AgentReuse brings extra
runtime latency. The significant parts of the latency are
using models for intent classification and parameter iden-
tification, as well as defining the similarity between user
requests and cached requests.
It is worth noting that existing personal assistants already need
to use models to classify user request intents [20, 38]. Therefore,
the extra storage and latency costs brought by intent classification
and parameter identification may not be counted towards the cost
of AgentReuse. A specific analysis and discussion of the extra costs
will be conducted in Section 6.
This section introduced the core content of this paper, the plan
reuse mechanism AgentReuse for LLM-driven agents. To define
the similarity of requests, AgentReuse performs intent classifica-
tion and key parameter identification on requests, extracts key
parameters, and then performs similarity definition to improve
performance. If a reusable plan exists in the cache, it is reused and
executed; if not, a new plan is generated and stored in the cache.
Finally, this section briefly analyzed the additional costs incurred by
AgentReuse. To effectively reuse plans, this paper adopts a method
of adding prompt words to obtain structured plans, which will be
introduced in the next section.
5
Implementation of the Reuse Mechanism
Based on the plan reuse mechanism for LLM-driven agents, Agen-
tReuse, proposed in the previous section, this section aims to
introduce the relevant technologies for implementing AgentReuse.
It is worth noting that the relevant technologies adopted in this
section represent only one method for implementing AgentReuse.
For different performance requirements, extra cost limitations, and
input text language types, different technical routes can be selected.
5.1
Models and Techniques
For Intent Clf.and Param. ID, this paper adopts the bert-base-chinese
model [14]. This model is the Chinese version of the BERT model
and possesses powerful language understanding capabilities. The
model uses a bidirectional Transformer architecture and is pre-
trained on a large amount of Chinese corpus data. It performs
excellently on multiple Chinese natural language processing tasks,
such as text classification, named entity recognition, and sentiment
analysis, providing a solid foundation for Chinese NLP tasks.
For Text Vectorization, this paper adopts the m3e-small model
[37]. M3E refers to Moka Massive Mixed Embedding. Specifically,
this model is trained by MokaAI using a massive dataset of Chinese
sentence pairs and supports mixed Chinese-English homogeneous
text similarity calculation. It is a text embedding model capable of
converting natural language into dense vectors. The m3e-small
model has 24 million parameters and generates vectors with a
dimension of 512.
For Text Semantic Similarity Calculation, this paper em-
ploys Cosine Similarity. Vectors can capture the semantic meaning
of words or sentences; words or sentences with similar meanings
will have similar vector representations. For example, "train" and
"high-speed rail," although textually different, are semantically sim-
ilar. Therefore, after vectorization, the vectors corresponding to
these two terms are close in the vector space. Cosine similarity is
typically used to quantify the similarity between vectors, calculated
by taking the cosine of the angle between two vectors. The range
of cosine similarity is -1 to 1, where -1 indicates the two vectors are
completely opposite in direction, 0 indicates they are orthogonal,
and 1 indicates they are in the same direction. Generally, in text
processing, the closer the cosine similarity value is to 1, the more
similar the two texts are. For vectors V1 and V2, the cosine similarity
is:
cos𝜃=
V1 · V2
||V1|| · ||V2||
(1)
For Vector Similarity Search, in the technical implementation
of this paper, we use the IndexFlatIP index from Facebook AI Sim-
ilarity Search (FAISS) [33] for efficient similarity search. FAISS is
an open-source similarity search library by Facebook that provides
efficient similarity search and clustering for vectors, supporting
searches at the billion-scale level, and is currently the most mature
approximate nearest neighbor search library. It is worth noting that
FAISS does not directly provide cosine similarity calculation; the
IndexFlatIP selected in this paper performs dot product calcula-
tion. Therefore, when performing cosine similarity calculation, the
vectors need to be normalized first.
5
